So data is very important, especially for our app, that's the reason why we went through the trouble
of creating an account with the weather open weather API so that we can get that ID, the API key we
need in order for us to be able to retrieve data from the API.
OK.
So I'm not going to go into too many details because there's a lot of things that you can read about
this API when you go to open weather map that August, assuming that you went through the process,
of course, of setting up and getting the API keys and so forth.
But let's go to our API click API.
And you can see that there are a lot of different places you can go to get information right, so at
the top here we have the current weather data.
Hourly forecast on one call, daily forecast, 16 days and so forth.
Let's click on this daily forecast six days less.
Click there and you can see it says here.
You can search six day weather forecasts with daily average parameters by city name and so forth.
The most important thing here is that you can see where do we do the API?
Call the endpoint right?
So he says open API or IG data 2.5 forecasts daily and so forth.
So this is the structure.
Now, some of these parameters, per se, we don't really need them.
But this is good to see how to structure our API or our endpoint so that we can get something from the
API.
But the most important thing also notice that you say you need to have that app ID, which we created
earlier, and you should have that for things to work.
But I already have something open, so if I open like those, you can see that I have this API, open
weather or data that five forecast daily and I have the queue for the query.
So Moscow.
And then I have the App ID.
You should add your your own app ID, their API key.
And there this.
We have this units.
There is imperial and there is metric.
Imperial is Farenheit and miles per hour for wind.
Metric is going to be three meters per second for wind and Celsius, for the weather, for the actual
for the temperature.
This is the API endpoint that we're going to be using, very similar to what you see here.
Of course, with a few differences.
So in this case here, if I add in this case, I add in Moscow.
And he'd enter.
You will see then I have this payload here.
Now, if you don't see the payload just like this, you can search on Chrome Store.
Jason Viewer That is the name of the plug in.
There are many different plug ins that allow you to see something like this, right?
That's not important because in case you want to see the organized payload Jason payload, as far as
I see here, OK, so it can just go to Chrome and look for chrome extension.
You can see JSON view or something like that.
You should get something that you can install on your browser and be able to see that and be able to
see something like this.
All right.
So it is important for us to know exactly what we are expecting to receive because we will need this
information on our price to structure our data classes and so forth in our project.
So that way, we can use Retrofit, which is and the A2DP library we're going to be using to retrieve
data from these API.
So as you can see here, the structure is very simple.
We have, of course, as our object is an object because I have this curly brace there, starting everything
and then I have this city, which is also an object, right?
This is just a point and contains ID, name coordinates, country, population and so forth.
Right.
And then we have here the list.
If you close, you can see the list contains a few items, in fact contains seven items of seven objects.
These objects, this is what we are looking for.
For each one of the items in a list.
This is a day for, say, worth of the weather or the forecast.
So the stay one two three four five six seven like that seven days forecast, right?
So this is where we're going to get all the information.
So it's daytime is date per say, and this is time Unix time stamp, which will need to deal with later.
And this is also sunrise, the time when the sunrise is going to happen at that address in that city
in Moscow, sunset and then we have temperature day, minimax night, evening and so forth.
OK.
So as we change the names, let's say Portland.
Like that, we can see we get the information about Portland.
And if I change the units here to metric, you will see that now we no longer have Fahrenheit, we have
Celsius and so forth.
So this is a structure that we are going to use, rather, this is the API we're going to use to fetch
all this data to show in our app.
So by the end, of course, of these videos or these lectures should say we should see something like
this.
So all of this information is coming from here.
All right.
So now that we have that, we have our end point, which we're going to hit to get that information
we need to understand, then how do we do that?
Well, like I said, we're going to use a retrofit to retrofit is an Asia type client.
This case to be cleaned that allows us to do these transactions, these calls to an API to get information.
Now the process of doing HDP calls, it's really complicated.
There's a lot of things that need to happen in order to work.
Now you can do all of that manually.
But HDP, in this case, retrofit, I should say retrofit.
It's a wonderful library that abstracts out all of the things that we need to or had to do before in
order to be able to pass JSON data.
So I really, really recommend you to use Retrofit now.
Now the setting up, especially with the dependency injection that we're going to be using we doing
in our project.
You may be a little bit strange at first, but I really recommend you to to actually get used to it
and keep that in mind and keep doing it so that you get used to it and you learn it because it is the
way to do it.
OK, whenever we want to fetch data from the internet.
All right, now, let's go back now that we have that piece of information, I think that's really important.
Let's go back to our project.
So back in our project here, the first thing we need to do is to find a way in which we can transform
all of this into data classes, data classes in this case, models that will use in Scotland to then
convert.
What do we see here, all these structures into actual objects we can use to show information such as
this?
Right.
So instead of trying to do all of that manually, what we can do, we can just copy this link.
Remember this link that works right?
It goes and gets fetches data information about this city and we're going to use that.
Well, how do we use that?
How do we create those models?
Well, instead of earlier, we created this model package.
What I'm going to do and I say right click, think that's a new and I'm going to go to Scotland data
class file from Jason.
Now the thing is, you may not have this because it's a plug in.
So how do we install that calling data class file from Jason?
Well, all we do, we go to file.
Actually, we go to Android in this case, go to preferences.
OK, and then we go to plug ins.
Right inside of plug ins, you can see we have two tabs, we have marketplace and we have installed.
I want to go to Marketplace.
In fact, if you keep on installed, you can see that I do have Jason codling class like that it's already
installed.
But in case you don't have you come back to the marketplace and you search, say Jason.
Write to Houghtaling.
If you don't see it.
And there we go.
Jason, to Scotland, cos that's what you want, what you want to do.
He will have this installed enable, which means you have to install, click, install.
Follow the process.
OK.
At the bottom, you can see and we should restart Android Studio and they will be installed in cases
that you have that.
In my case, I have that already, so I don't have to go through that, so right click again, you say,
calling data class file from Jason.
And here we could paste the entire payload, but we're not going to do that because there's other ways
to resolve.
Once you hear right click, you say retrieve content from a zip URL, which is what we want.
That's why we got we copied the URL.
Just paste it all there, and I'm going to say, OK.
And voila, you can see it went and ran and put together pretty much got the entire payload, all of
this.
OK.
As you see there.
Got it all into here.
Now it's not very pretty because it's all in one line, but that doesn't matter because we don't.
We don't care.
All right.
So now we're going to add here the actual class, why we're going to give it a class name.
So I'm just going to say weather like this, they generate and after a few seconds will see that our
model package is no longer empty.
What happened open in Whyalla?
You can see we have all these classes.
All right.
So all of these classes, what are they doing, they're actually representing each one of these entry
here that we have a live CD.
We have list in sort of a list has other objects that are being represented.
When we created these all of these classes, now we have a problem here because you notice that there's
this class that doesn't have a name.
So for us here, we're going to call this whether we'll see that this object is being called somewhere.
That's why this weather class here, it's empty or it has some problem because it's saying, well,
this list is a list of an empty type.
Well, it's not empty anymore.
It's going to be whether object like this.
OK, that also means I'm going to change the name of this, Katie, there to something.
That we just looked at her rename.
I'm just going to call this, what are we called it, whether object could name anything you want,
but whether object sounds great.
What that means if you look at this structure here, city count card list message, let's go back to
our payload, their city card message count list, right?
So what are we saying that now is that this list is going to contain objects type?
Whether object, which is all of this cloud degree, all that we didn't have to do any of that, the
plug in that helped us out, which is really, really important.
As you can see, we would have to take a long time to go and create a silly object, coordinate fields
and so forth.
Now some of these objects or classes, I should say data classes, we are not going to be using them,
but nonetheless, it's OK to have everything set up just in case we want them as well.